THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
THE ELECTORAL COMMISSION
Telephone: +256-41-337500/337508-11
Fax: +256-31-262207/41-337595/6
E-mail: secretary@ec.or.ug/info@ec.or.ug
Ref: ………………………………………
Plot 1-3 & 5, 7th Street Industrial Area
P. O. Box 22678 Kampala, Uganda
Website: www.ec.or.ug
Date: .............................................
for a regular free and fair elections and referenda
Press Release
Display of Lists of Demarcated Local Government Council Electoral Areas
for the 2025/2026 General Elections, 13th - 20th January 2025
In preparation for the 2025/2026 General Elections, the Electoral Commission conducted an
exercise from 6th – 16th August 2024, to demarcate electoral areas for representation at Local
Governments in the cities and districts of Uganda.
The demarcation of Local Government Council electoral areas is the process of drawing and
defining the boundaries of areas of representation for Directly-elected Councilors and Women
Councilors forming ⅓ of Local Government Councils.
The exercise aimed at ensuring that each basic unit of representation (Sub-county, Town, Division,
Parish/Ward) is represented in the respective Local Government by at least one person, hence fair
and effective representation in Local Governments.
1 Display of Lists of the Demarcated Local Government Council Electoral Areas
The Electoral Commission has finalized processing the returns from the demarcation exercise and
will display the lists of the demarcated areas from 13th January 2025 to 20th January 2025.
The purpose of the display exercise is to:
a. Ensure that the boundaries of every electoral area are clearly defined and that all
administrative units are fairly represented;
b. Enable the Commission to re-confirm the administrative units and hence ensure the accuracy
of the final list of administrative units in Uganda; and,
c. Promote transparency and fairness in the electoral process.
2 Procedure for the Display of lists of demarcated electoral areas
The display of the lists of demarcated electoral areas shall be done by the District/City Returning
Officers and the respective Sub-County Supervisors as follows:
a. The District Returning Officer shall oversee the display of lists of electoral area boundaries
at the District/City level.
The demarcated electoral areas at this level include:
i. District/City Directly Elected Councilors;
ii. District/City Woman Councilors;
10th January 2025	Adm72/01

-- 1 of 2 --

2
b. The display of lists of electoral areas for the Divisions of Kampala City and Wakiso District
shall be managed by the respective Assistant Election Administrators in charge of the
Divisions;
c. The Sub County Supervisors in liaison with their respective District Returning Officers, shall
oversee the display of lists of demarcated electoral areas at the Municipality/City Division
and Sub-county/Town/Municipal Division levels.
The demarcated electoral areas at this level include:
i. Municipality/City Division Directly Elected Councilors
ii. Municipality/City Division Woman Councilors
iii. Sub-county/Town/Municipal Division Elected Councilors
iv. Sub-county/Town/Municipal Division Woman Councilors
d. The above district/city and sub-county election officials shall display all the above lists by
pinning them on public notice boards to allow stakeholders to view the demarcated electoral
areas within their District or City, Municipality/City Division and Sub-
county/Town/Municipal Division;
e. Stakeholders can also access and view the lists of the demarcated electoral areas by visiting
the Electoral Commission website: www.ec.or.ug
f. In the event of objections, affected stakeholders shall submit a formal written complaint to
the District Returning Officer, clearly outlining the reasons for their objection by filling out
the Demarcation Complaints Form (form DCF).
5. Resolution of demarcation complaints
During the display exercise, stakeholders may raise complaints relating to the demarcation, to the
District Demarcation Complaints Resolution Team, which comprises the following persons:
i. The District Returning Officer (Chairperson for the Committee);
ii. The Assistant District Administrator (Secretary for the Committee);
iii. The Chief Administrative Officer;
iv. The District Planner; and
v. Any other Officer the Committee may co-opt who shall not be a political leader.
The District/City Team shall sit and determine the complaints raised.
In case, the complainant is dissatisfied with the decisions of the demarcation committee, he/she will
appeal to the Chairperson, Electoral Commission.
The Electoral Commission appeals to all stakeholders in the electoral process to participate in this
display exercise, following the guidelines that will be issued for the exercise.
Justice Byabakama Mugenyi Simon
Chairperson, Electoral Commission

-- 2 of 2 --

